---
layout: post
date: 2021-11-29 4:00:00
categories: [https, encryption]
---

<h3>How to Create a Self Signed Certificate and Secure your Site</h3>

Securing your site using the https protocol provides SSL/TLS encryption and prevents interception of your data using
man-in-the-middle attacks.  Although it is recommended to use a CA or Certificate Authority to establish a trusted environment, 
a self-signed certificate can be an initial step taken towards securing your site.  The following tutorial demonstrates how to
generate a self-signed certficate using Ubuntu Server 20.04 and Apache 2.4.41.  

SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) is a security protocal that encrypts communication between a client and server.  TLS (Transport Layer Security) is the successor of SSL.  Some advantages of using a self-signed certificate are that they are fast and easy to use and are useful in test environments.

<h4>Create a Self Signed Certificate</h4>

Make sure openssl is installed and in your PATH.  Ubuntu Server 20.04 has openssl installed by default but if it is not installed
then you will need to use your package manager to install it.  The following command creates a self-signed certificate and key.
<blockquote>
openssl req -new -x509 -nodes -out server.crt -keyout server.key
</blockquote>

Here we use the openssl command and request a new x509 certificate.  Our certificate file will be named server.crt and
our key will be named server.key.

<h4>Configure Apache to use SSL</h4>

Apache requires an extension to be installed and running in order to provide SSL functionality.  We will be using
the Apache Module mod_ssl and it's description on the Apache HTTP Server Project says this:
<blockquote>
Description: Strong cryptography using the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols.
</blockquote>

The following command enables the ssl module in apache:
<blockquote>
sudo a2enmod ssl
</blockquote>

<h4>Edit VHOST/Configuration File</h4>
Every site that Apache serves requires a configuration file or Virtual Host file and usually has a .conf extenstion.  This file must be created and is located in /etc/apache2/sites-available.
The following code block is the minimum required to enable SSL for your site.
<blockquote>
<br><VirtualHost *:443>
    <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;ServerName www.example.com
    <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;SSLEngine on
    <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;SSLCertificateFile "/path/to/www.example.com.cert"
    <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;SSLCertificateKeyFile "/path/to/www.example.com.key"
<br></VirtualHost>
</blockquote>

Here we specify the Virtual Host to listen for all connections coming on https port 443.  In the Server Name we can either specify a domain or ip address.
<br>SSLEngine will be set to the 'on' flag.
<br>SSLCertificateFile is set to the path of your certificate.
<br>SSLCertificateKeyFile is set to the path of your private key.

<h4>Restart Apache Service</h4>
We need to restart the apache2 service in order for our configuration to take effect:
<blockquote>
sudo service apache2 restart
</blockquote>
