---
layout: post
date: 2021-10-13 08:56:00
categories: [docker]
---

<h4>Creating Containers with Docker</h4>

Docker is a type of virtualization technology that allows us to create isolated containers that run similiar to services
and are much faster than the traditional virtualization software.  In order to create containers with Docker, your cpu should
support virtualization as this is a necessary requirement for Docker to run.

Let's first pull an Ubuntu image as the base for our Docker container.
<blockquote>
docker pull ubuntu
<br>docker container run -it --name myfirstcontainer ubuntu /bin/bash
</blockquote>

In our first command we pull an ubuntu image from the docker repositories.  Next we specify that we want to run a container
with an interactive terminal.  We give our container a name 'myfirstcontainer', indicate that we want to use the
ubuntu image and run a bash terminal upon creation.  When this command runs successfully we should be greeted with a prompt
that shows our container id.

<blockquote>
docker container ls -a
<br>docker start myfirstcontainer
<br>docker exec -it myfirstcontainer /bin/bash
</blockquote>

After exiting our container using the exit command we can check the status of our containers from the terminal. The first
command lists the containers that have been created.  The output from this command  will give us a list of any
containers that have exited recently such as the container we have just created.  In order to use our container again we 
have to start our container using the second command.  Once the container is started we then execute an interactive shell using our container name as well as start a bash terminal.

It is a good security practice not to run as the root user and to create a user with sudo privileges.  We will begin by updating our repositories
and installing the sudo package on our system.  We use the apt package manager on Ubuntu to update and install the sudo package.

<blockquote>
apt-get update && apt-get install -y sudo
</blockquote>

Next we will add a user to the system and add them to the sudo group.

<blockquote>
adduser myuser
<br>usermod -aG sudo myuser
</blockquote>

When we exit the container using the exit command we can now login as our new user using the following command:

<blockquote>
docker exec -it myfirstcontainer login
</blockquote>

This command instructs docker to execute an interactive terminal on our container followed by the login command.  After running
this command we are presented with a login prompt where we can enter our credentials.
