---
layout: post
date: 2021-11-12 6:35:00
categories: [ansible, ssh]
---

<h3>Working with Ansible SSH Authentication</h3>

Ansible is a tool used for automating tasks directed at remote servers.  Before ansible can configure a remote server it first needs to authenticate itself.
The following tutorial demonstrates how to add your private key to your user account so ansible can perform a basic ping test on the remote server we are trying to access.

<h4>Install SSH-Agent</h4>

We can use SSH-Agent to start a new bash terminal like this:

<blockquote>
ssh-agent bash
</blockquote>

Next we need to add your private key to SSH-Agent:
<blockquote>
ssh-add your-private-key.pem
</blockquote>

In this instance we are adding a .pem file, which is our private key obtained from AWS.

<h4>Edit Hosts File</h4>

We need to include an entry for our remote server in ansible's default host file located in the etc directory:

<blockquote>
sudo nano /etc/ansible/hosts
</blockquote>

<h4>Use Ansible ping Module to Test Hosts</h4>

Ansible has a built in ping module that we can use to test our SSH authentication to our remote hosts.

<blockquote>
ansible all -m ping --user ubuntu
</blockquote>

Here we are instructing ansible to ping all hosts.  We use -m to specify the module we want to use, which in our case is the ping module.
The --user command line argument specifies which user we will use to authenticate with our remote server.  We should get a successful ping reply after
we complete the test.

<h4>SSH to our remote server</h4>

We can SSH into our remote server using the same .pem key and also to check whether our ansible script was successful.  We can do so using the following command:

<blockquote>
ssh ubuntu@domain.com
</blockquote>

Another way we can pass our private .pem key to ansible is to use ansible's --private-key command line tool:

<blockquote>
ssh -i your-private-key.pem ubuntu@domain.com
</blockquote>
