---
layout: post
date: 2021-11-18 6:30:00
categories: [python, pip, virtualenv]
---

<h3>Installing Software using a Virtual Environment</h3>

When developing applications it is a good idea to keep our application seperate from other applications so as to avoid conflicts with package dependencies.
Using a virtual environment we are able to develop and test our application in an isolated environment.  

We can keep track of all the dependencies of our application and their required versions by using PIP's 'freeze' command line utility which allows us
to take a snapshot of all our application requirements and save them to a textfile.  When we move our application to another
platform, we can easily install the required packages using PIP.

<h4>Setting up the Virtual Environment</h4>

Virtualenv is a tool used to create isolated Python environments. It creates a folder which contains all the necessary executables to use the packages that a Python project would need.

We will use pip to list what packages we have installed:
<blockquote>
pip list
</blockquote>

This will give us a list of installed packages.  If the package virtualenv is not installed then we can install it like this:
<blockquote>
pip install virtualenv
</blockquote>

Once we have the virtualenv module installed we can initialize it like this:

<blockquote>
python -m venv venv
</blockquote> 

The above command begins by invoking python and passing it the '-m' flag for module.  The module we want to use is the venv
module and the directory name is also called venv.

<h4>Activating the Virtual Environment</h4>

After we create our venv directory we next need to activate our virtual environment using a script that was created when we
ran the above command.

<blockquote>
<br>On Windows:
<br>venv\Scripts\activate
</blockquote>

To deactivate the virtual environment simply type deactivate on the command prompt:

<blockquote>
(venv) C:\Users\Tim\enrollment>deactivate
</blockquote>

Also notice that we are in the virtual enviroment by the word venv enclosed in parentheses.  After issuing the
deactivate command the user will be presented with a prompt without the venv.

<h4>Create a Snapshot of Dependencies using PIP</h4>

In order to preserve our application's package dependencies it is necessary to save them to a textfile so that
we may install them if our application is moved to another platform.  We can do this by using the PIP freeze command line utility.

<blockquote>
pip freeze > requirements.txt
</blockquote>

This issues a command to pip to save the application dependencies to a textfile.

<h4>Install Application Requirements from a Text File</h4>

If our application is moved to another system we will need to install the required dependencies to that host system or
our application will not run.  Instead of manually installing each dependency and trying to remember which version our
application needs we can use the requirements.txt file we created earlier to easily install all dependencies.

<blockquote>
pip install -r requirements.txt
</blockquote>

The above command uses the '-r' flag to specify a requirements file which we have named requirements.txt
