---
layout: post
date: 2021-11-05 2:47:00
categories: [python, api]
---

<h3>Python API Tutorial: Getting Started with APIs</h3>

An API, or Application Programming Interface, is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
For the purposes of this tutorial will be making use of an API's request feature to get data from a server, specifically Covid related data.
We will need to make a request to an API server for data and receive that request in a response.

<h4>Install Python requests library</h4>

We first need to download and install the Python request library using pip.

<blockquote>
pip install requests
</blockquote>

Next we need to import the library in our application using Python's import statement.
<blockquote>
import requests
</blockquote>

<h4>Make a GET request</h4>

We will use the requests.get() function which takes in the URL we are requesting as its argument.

<blockquote>
response =  requests.get('https://corona.lmao.ninja/v2/countries?yesterday&sort')
</blockquote>

Let's print the status code of our response:
<blockquote>
print(response.status_code)
</blockquote>

We should receive a 200 response status code which means our request was successful.

Next let's print the data that we received from the API:
<blockquote>
print(response.json())
</blockquote>

<h4>Working with JSON Data in Python</h4>

JSON(JavaScript Object Notation) is the language of APIs.  JSON is used to encode data that ensures machines can easily read the data.
Our Covid data are dictionaries in a list which is encoded to a string in JSON format.

The json library has two main functions:
<br>json.dumps() - Takes in a Python object, and converts(dumps) it to a string.
<br>json.loads() - Takes a JSON string, and converts(loads) it to a Python object.

Let's create a function to create a formatted string of the Python JSON object we have received from our request.

<blockquote>
import json

<br>def jprint(obj):
<br>&nbsp;    # create a formatted string of the Python JSON object
<br>&nbsp;    text = json.dumps(obj, sort_keys=True, indent=4)
<br>&nbsp;    print(text)
</blockquote>

We can now use the jprint funtion to print a more readable output of the data.
<blockquote>
jprint(response.json( ))
</blockquote>
