---
layout: post
date: 2021-10-07 01:41:00
categories: [ansible, docker]
---

<h4>Configuration Management using Ansible</h4>

Ansible can be used to automate much of the installation tasks required on multiple systems using a markup language
called YAML (Yet Another Markup Language).  The following steps demonstrate how to install and run an apache 
webserver using an Ansible YAML file.

<blockquote>
---
<br>- hosts: localhost
<br>&nbsp;  become: true
</blockquote>

All YAML files start with 3 dashes followed by a hosts line.  Our example sets our hosts to localhost.  
The next line is the become line and we will be setting this to true. This indicates to our ansible script that we will
be requiring elevated priveleges when running our subsequent commands.

<blockquote>
<br>&nbsp; tasks:
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - name: install apache2
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; apt: name=apache2 update_cache=yes state=latest
<br>
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - name: start apache2
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; service: name=apache2 state=started
</blockquote>

Our first task is to install apache by using the apt module.  We first assign a description to our task using the name tag and a descriptive message.  

We next use the apt module by indicating the name of the application we want to install followed by updating our cache repositories.  We want the latest apache binaries so we state the latest version in our script.

After installation of apache we need to start the application by using the service module and indicating that the state is started.
  
<blockquote>
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -name: enable mods
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; apache2_module:
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; name: "&#123;&#123; item &#125;&#125;"
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; state: present
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; loop:
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - headers
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - expires
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - macro
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - rewrite
</blockquote>

We require apache to run with a few modules installed.  We can install several apache modules using the apache2_module
and iterate over a list using a loop.  The 'item' keyword will be used as the variable that contains each item in the list.

<blockquote>
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; notify:
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - restart apache2
</blockquote>

The notify tag calls a handler which is responsible for restarting apache after the modules have been installed.  Using notify
requires us to call our handler by its name.

<blockquote>
<br>&nbsp; handlers:
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - name: restart apache2
<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; service: name=apache2 state=restarted
</blockquote>

Here our handler restarts apache2 by calling on the service module with the name of the application as well as the restarted state.

