---
layout: post
date: 2021-10-26 1:39:00
categories: [python, flask, web-development]
---

<h3>Working with Flask - a micro web framework written in Python</h3>

When developing applications it is recommended to create a virtual environment for development purposes.  A virtual environment ensures
that your application will not interfere with other applications running on the same system.  Here we will demonstrate how to setup a
virtual environment in order for us to install Flask and other required tools that our python application needs. We will be using the pip package manager to install the virtual environment as well as flask.

<h4>Setting up the virtual environment and framework</h4>

We first need to download and install the following packages:

<ul>
<li>Python</li>
<li>Python package manager pip</li>
<li>Virtual env Tool (venv)</li>
<li>Flask</li>
</ul>

<h4>Configuration</h4>

Open a terminal and type python to see if the application is installed.

<blockquote>
C:\Users\Tim\enrollment>python
<br>Python 3.9.7 (tags/v3.9.7:1016ef3, Aug 30 2021, 20:19:38) [MSC v.1929 64 bit (AMD64)] on win32
<br>Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
<br>>>>
</blockquote>

Next check to see if pip is installed by running the following command.

<blockquote>
C:\Users\Tim\enrollment>pip --version
<br>pip 21.3 from C:\Users\Tim\AppData\Local\Packages\PythonSoftwareFoundation.Python.3.9_qbz5n2kfra8p0\LocalCache\local-packages\Python39\site-packages\pip (python 3.9)
</blockquote>

If pip is not installed we will need to download and install the package.

<blockquote>
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py
</blockquote>

The run the following:
<blockquote>
python get-pip.py
</blockquote>

<h4>Working with the Pip package installer</h4>

Type pip list on any terminal to show what packages are installed via pip.

<blockquote>
C:\Users\Tim>pip list
</blockquote>

We need to install our virtual environment (virtualenv) if not installed. This will isolate our application while in the development phase.

<blockquote>
C:\Users\Tim>pip install virtualenv
</blockquote>

<h4>Installing Flask</h4>

Install flask by running the following command:

<blockquote>
C:\Users\Tim>pip install flask
</blockquote>
