---
layout: post
date: 2021-09-20 01:00:00
categories: [docker, dockerfile, prometheus]
---

<h1>How to create a custom image using a Dockerfile</h1>

A dockerfile is a textfile that we can use to build custom Docker images.
This textfile is known as a "Dockerfile" and will contain all the commands we would usually run
when building images from the command line (i.e. updating repositories, installing applications, and running
commands and scripts).

<mark><b>Note:</b> A Dockerfile must have a capital D and not a lower case d.</mark>

For our example we will be creating a Dockerfile to build an image with Prometheus installed.  Prometheus is a tool 
that gathers metrics from our system and allows us to display graphs of this data.  We will need to install 2 primary
packages: the prometheus source as well as the node_exporter add-on which gives us even more metrics.

<h4>Determine your base image</h4>

We need to define the base image we will be working on.  For our example we will be using ubuntu:18.04 and we declare
this in the Dockerfile using the FROM keyword:

FROM ubuntu:18.04

<h4>Update Repositories and install packages</h4>

Next we need to update our apt repositories as well as install necessary packages.  We will do this using the RUN
keyword which will execute our commands as if we were typing them in a terminal.  Each consecutive RUN statement will
add a layer to the image we are building.

RUN apt update

RUN apt install -y wget curl

RUN wget https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/releases/download/v2.8.0/prometheus-2.8.0.linux-amd64.tar.gz

RUN tar xvfz prometheus-2.8.0.linux-amd64.tar.gz
 
RUN wget https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/download/v1.2.2/node_exporter-1.2.2.linux-amd64.tar.gz

RUN tar xvfz node_exporter-1.2.2.linux-amd64.tar.gz

<h4>Edit Prometheus configuration file</h4>

In order for Prometheus to take advantage of node_exporter we will have to edit a configuration file named prometheus.yml.
We can accomplish this in a dockerfile by using the WORKDIR keyword to change to the prometheus directory and using the
RUN keyword in combination with sed (stream editor) to make the necessary changes (i.e. prometheus -> node, 9090 -> 9100)

WORKDIR /prometheus-2.8.0.linux-amd64

RUN sed -i 's/prometheus/node/' prometheus.yml

RUN sed -i 's/9090/9100/' prometheus.yml

<h4>Start up services using a script</h4>

In order for Prometheus and node_exporter to run we will need to execute their respective binaries.  To do this we 
will create a bash script, "start.sh" which goes into the respective directories and executes the required binaries.

RUN echo "#!/bin/bash" >> /start.sh && \

echo "cd ../node_exporter-1.2.2.linux-amd64" >> /start.sh && \

echo "./node_exporter &" >> /start.sh && \

<mark>Note: We need to run node_exporter in the background using an 
"&" ampersand otherwise the process is terminated after 
prometheus executes.</mark>

echo "cd ../prometheus-2.8.0.linux-amd64" >> /start.sh && \

echo "./prometheus --config.file=prometheus.yml" >> /start.sh

<h4>Add execute permissions to your script</h4>
We need to make our script executable and we can do this using the chmod command.

RUN chmod +x /start.sh

<h4>Run start script</h4>

The final step in our image creation process is to have our container run a script as soon as it is created.
Using the CMD keyword we can specify commands that our container will run when using this image.

CMD ["/start.sh"]

<mark>After our image is created we can run a container with the following command:
docker run -it --rm -p 9090:9090 -p 9100:9100 image_name:version </mark>

You can now browse to http://localhost:9090 to view your prometheus site.
