---
layout: post
date: 2021-10-22 12:40:00
categories: [aws, ec2, cloud]
---

<h4>How to Create an EC2 on AWS Console</h4>

Step 1: Choose an AMI Image 
<br>In order to create an EC2 we need to select an ami image.  To launch an Ubuntu instance choose AMIs on the left of the console
and change the dropdown menu to "Public Images", click in the serach bar and choose "Owner", then choose "Amazon images".
Add a filter and choose "Source", then search for "amazon/Cloud9Ubuntu".  Any of these images will work for the AWS Academy
Learner Lab and we will remember it's AMI-ID for later use.

<blockquote>
ami-03bf8594c6a023022
</blockquote>

Step 2: Choose an Instance Type
<br>Once we have an ami we would like to use we select "Launch" to proceed with EC2 creation.  We will be using a free-tier eligible
instance.  There are several to choose from and we will be using the t2.micro with 1 GB of Memory.  Select Next to Configure Instance Details

Step 3: Configure Instance Details
<br>Here we can specify the number of instances that we require, request Spot intances, and assign access management roles to our intances.
We will only be requiring 1 instance for our demonstration and everything else should be left default.  Select Next to Add Storage.

Step 4: Add Storage
<br>Our instance will require storage and the default General Purpose SSD with 10 GB storage will be used for our demonstration.
We are also given an option to attach additional volumes but we will only be using one volume for this tutorial. Click Next to Add Tags.

Step 5: Add Tags
<br>A tag consists of a case-sensitive key-value pair. For example, you could define a tag with key = Name and value = Webserver.
Click Next to Configure Security Groups.

Step 6: Configure Security Group
<br>A security group is a set of firewall rules that control the traffic for your instance.  Our security group opens ports 80 for apache, port 22 for ssh access, and port 5000 which is the default port for Flask web framework.
Select Review and Launch.

Step 7: Review Instance Launch
<br>Here we can review the configuration of our instance before launching.  We can take a look at our AMI Details, Instance Type, Security Groups, Instance Details, Storage, and Tags.
We can also edit these settings before launch.  Next Click Launch to deploy your instance.  Your instance should be visible in your EC2 services console.

Step 8: Select or Create a new Key pair
<br>Key pairs allows us to securely SSH into our instance so it is important that we create one.  We also should get an option to download our AWS access keys as well as receive a link where we may login to our console.

