---
layout: post
date: 2022-04-16 06:15:00
categories: [aws, backup, snapshot, restore]
---
# AWS PREP How to Create snapshot of EC2

## To create a snapshot using the console

`Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.`

## In the navigation pane, choose Snapshots, Create snapshot.

- For Resource type, choose Volume.

- For Volume ID, select the volume from which to create the snapshot.

- The Encryption field indicates the selected volume's encryption status. If the selected volume is encrypted, the snapshot is automatically encrypted using the same KMS key. If the selected volume is unencrypted, the snapshot is not encrypted.

- (Optional) For Description, enter a brief description for the snapshot.

- (Optional) To assign custom tags to the snapshot, in the Tags section, choose Add tag, and then enter the key-value pair. You can add up to 50 tags.

- Choose Create snapshot.

## Restoring from Backup

- On the Amazon EC2 console, on the Elastic Block Store menu, choose Snapshots.

- Search for the snapshot that you want to restore, and select it.

- Choose Actions, and then choose Create Volume.

- Create the new volume in the same Availability Zone as your EC2 instance.

## On the Amazon EC2 console, select the instance.

- In the instance details, make note of the device name that you want to replace in the Root device entry or Block Devices entries.

- Attach the volume. The process differs for root volumes and non-root volumes.

## For root volumes:

- Stop the EC2 instance.

- On the EC2 Elastic Block Store Volumes menu, select the root volume that you want to replace.

- Choose Actions, and then choose Detach Volume.

- On the EC2 Elastic Block Store Volumes menu, select the new volume.

- Choose Actions, and then choose Attach Volume.

- Select the instance that you want to attach the volume to, and use the same device name that you noted earlier.

## For non-root volumes:

- On the EC2 Elastic Block Store Volumes menu, select the root volume that you want to replace.

- Choose Actions, and then choose Detach Volume.

- Attach the new volume by choosing it on the EC2 Elastic Block Store Volumes menu and then choosing Actions, Attach Volume. Select the instance that you want to attach it to, and then select an available device name.

- Using the operating system for the instance, unmount the existing volume, and then mount the new volume in its place.

- In Linux, you can use the umount command. In Windows, you can use a logical volume manager (LVM) such as the Disk Management system utility.

- Detach any prior volumes that you may be replacing by choosing it on the EC2 Elastic Block Store Volumes menu and then choosing Actions, Detach Volume.

