---
layout: post
date: 2022-04-11 01:10:00
categories: [vulnerability, scanning, openvas, lynis]
---

## OpenVAS ##
# Docker Installation # 
Install Docker. On Ubuntu it looks like the following, but it might change depending on different distros.
```shell
sudo apt-get update
sudo snap install docker`
```

Confirm it was installed using the following:
```shell
docker --version
```

Now you can run it with:

``` shell
docker run -d -p 443:443 --name openvas mikesplain/openvas
```

(If you are running docker on your local machine then visit https://localhost)

If on a vm then follow the instructions below:

# VM Instructions #
Access the container using this
``` shell
docker exec -it openvas bash
```

Open file the file `/etc/default/openvas-gsa` (note: Install `vim`
prior to opening `apt update -y && apt install vim -y`)

``` shell
vim /etc/default/openvas-gsa
```

Add the following line:

```
ALLOW_HEADER_HOST=PUT YOUR HOST NAME or IPADDRESS HERE
```

Restart OpenVAS:

``` shell
/etc/init.d/openvas-gsa restart
```
Check on browser -> Ok!.

Then go to https://ip-address-of-your-machine

user: admin 
password: admin

# How to scan a target #

- Select Scans
- Select Tasks
- Click on purple wand icon on upper left of screen and select advanced task
- Enter Target details and click create
- After scan is complete select reports
- Select report date 
- Download pdf via dropdown menu

# Lynis #
Lynis is too verbose and is hard to read. The result is usually for
*you* not for the inject.

# Installation #
Install `lynis` either through your package manager like this

``` shell
apt install -y lynis
```

or through their git repo

``` shell
git clone https://github.com/CISOfy/lynis
cd lynis
```

# Run #

``` shell
lynis audit system --pentest
```

# LinPEAS #

This checks for privilege escalation vulnerabilities, and it's way better
than Lynis.

Get it from their github release page:
``` shell
curl -L https://github.com/carlospolop/PEASS-ng/releases/latest/download/linpeas.sh | sh
```

# Traitor #

# Installation #

```shell
wget https://github.com/liamg/traitor/releases/download/v0.0.14/traitor-amd64
chmod 777 traitor-amd64
./traitor-amd64 -a -p
```

# Usage #

Run with no arguments to find potential vulnerabilities/misconfigurations which could allow privilege escalation. Add the `-p` flag if the current user password is known. The password will be requested if it's needed to analyse sudo permissions etc.

```shell
traitor -p
```
Run with the `-a`/`--any` flag to find potential vulnerabilities, attempting to exploit each, stopping if a root shell is gained. Again, add the `-p` flag if the current user password is known.

```shell
traitor -a -p
```
Run with the `-e`/`--exploit` flag to attempt to exploit a specific vulnerability and gain a root shell.

```shell
traitor -p -e docker:writable-socket
```
